I'm Jo Wallace for gear wire.com on the
floor of dam 2007 I'm talking with Bill
Rick twin full of joyful guitars how are
you I'm fine thank you
you tell me about this unique line of
guitars that you've got here well I've
got three different models of guitars
from one model is called the bird fish
it's standing on my left-hand side I
started this series in 95 then I have
another model which I built in I think
it was 2000 it's called the Tesla and
the latest model which was finished for
this name show is the model neewa this
is the only guitar which has got a heads
to hit stalk on it's got a regular
vibrato on but if you have a look on the
other instruments you see that they are
very conceptional very purist it with a
different approach of making and of
playing probably so the issue with a
bird fish or the intention with a bur
fish is that you can interchange the
tone bars they are standing for the body
wood so they met from red elder but you
have another set of tone bars made from
Michigan maple the pickups here are
moveable and they are even slidable and
exchangeable they are just mounted with
one little boat that you can open here
and then you can put out the cable and
build on another pickup that means it's
a very versatile instrument you can
change the whole character this is about
the bird fish the other guitar that I
have here is the rest red Tesla this
guitar has two pickups a pickup selector
that selects either between the neck
pickup and the bridge pickup you can't
play both it's a very pure istic
instrument but you have here three
momentary switches which creates some
noises this course is a little this goes
to a little microphone it causes a bit
back this is a tone interruption a kill
switch and this causes a 60 cycle hum so
the idea of this guitar was to deal with
all the archaic noises that you had with
broken Peterson in the old years when
each our manufacturing was insufficient
or when the guitar was old and some
damages went on so players started to
deal with these noises and what I wanted
to do is to create
the perfect guitar which deals with
these noises and you find them here in
the line so this is a volume and tone
that's all about the Tesla and the new
one is more you can have the approach of
saying it's more stylistic instrument
amongst all of my guitars this seems to
be the most traditional if you can call
it traditional because it's got a hit
stock it's got a full sized body the
body is made from red alder as same as
the neck it's also made from alder which
is hardened with a some trick that I
don't tell you now and it sounds very
very warm very percussive very fender
aged so all of my instruments have would
say more of an Irish tone than a Gibson
tone this guitar has a pickup selector
here which you can slide and it has a
tone control and it has a volume control
which also works as a push push as a
bypass for always getting to the bridge
pickup I show you how it looks on the
back side you see that it's a very
three-dimensional body it's carved and
shaped in a very let's say spectacular
way how does a shape like this affect
the tone of the guitar well there are
some basic needs for a shape for being
able to get out bass response of the
instrument but I would say that three
dimensionality is not a requirement for
the tone it's more the length of the
upper body part is important for getting
a bass resonance but if it's shaped in
this three dimensional way this is more
ergonomic issue so if you play this
guitar this is very comfortable on your
body so this was the idea for this
dramatic 3d shape now is this design
influenced by Japanese architecture and
aesthetics
might be yes it's uh well I'm a fan of
Tadao Ando but he does he does do
another another sort of style I don't
think that it's that much influenced by
Japanese that the name of this guitar is
Japanese it's noir which means garden so
it was more than a picture of all the
compartment parts which belongs to the
guitar that reminded me to a garden so
this is where the weather name come and
of course it's an e-form of Japanese
craftsmanship and artists as well yep
well thank you so much for your time
we've been talking about the toy full
guitar series on Joe Wallace on the
floor of damn 2007 for gear wire.com